
As a member of the Web Standards Project and a working developer
building Web sites, I am writing to ask that Microsoft take the
next logical step in its support for W3C standards, and deliver
full (100%) support for Cascading Style Sheets Level-1, HTML 4.0,
DOM 1.0 and XML 1.0 in the next version of Internet Explorer.



Full support of these standards will enable developers and
designers to finally embrace this technology, which Microsoft
helped create, and which Microsoft was the first to begin
supporting. Less than full support in Internet Explorer would be
a bad marketing decision when its largest competitor delivers the
goods.


(Microsoft's support for these standards has been far superior to
Netscape's, but that will change when Netscape releases Navigator
5.0, which WILL offer 100% support for these standards, according
to independent reports.)


For the good of your browser and the advancement of the Web as a
great medium for communications, commerce, and art, I urge you to
go the distance and make full support for these standards a
priority for your Internet Explorer development team. If you
cannot commit to that time frame, I'd like to know when when
Microsoft DOES plan to deliver full support for these standards.
(If the answer is "never," I'd like to know that, too, so I can
let my clients and site visitors know that standards-compliant
sites may not work properly on Internet Explorer.)


Sincerely,


(YOUR NAME), The Web Standards Project
http://www.webstandards.org/



